# Notes

## Basic Use: Keeping track of notes

A note is just a textfile identified by a name.  To create a new note,

    $ notes new mynote

and your editor will open with a blank file.  Save will commit to disk in the right place.  Once you've created a note, you can re-open it with

    $ notes edit mynotename

Note that `edit` and `new` are two different things!  Under the hood, notes keep track of metadata like creation date and `new` will create a `new` file under the current day's directory.  If you have multiple notes with the same name from different days, you'll get a disambiguation prompt:

    Multiple matches for mynotename found:
      idx   enc    Name
       0    False  /Users/maxhodak/Documents/Notes/2010/11/03/mynotename.mdown
       1    True   /Users/maxhodak/Documents/Notes/2010/11/28/mynotename.mdown

      Select an index: 

Notes does not support multiple notes with same name on the same day.  To search your existing notes for a string:

    $ notes search "Some String"

You can also delete a note:

    $ notes delete mynotename

though make sure you're using the version control features properly unless you really want to lose data.

Finally, to get a list of all of your notes, you can use:

    $ notes list

the long form of the list command, `notes list -all` is especially useful for piping to other command that operate on your notefiles.

## Micronotes: miniature task tracking and reminders

Programmers often refer to having a mental stack.

    $ note stack
    
    ==> [0] Get correct answers for BME 153 homework
    ==> [1] Go running
    ==> [2] Send back to proposal for Widgets

To add a new item:

    $ note push Adding a new item!

appends it.  It's not *really* a stack, because it's not LIFO.  To remove an item,

    $ note pop 2

removes the item at position 2 (see the numbers in brackets to the right of the arrows above?)

## Version Control

    notes git-init
    notes git-add
    notes git-commit
    notes git-log
    notes git-status

## Security

Notes supports security protocols involving encryption of notes, journalling, and tracked data.  The current implementation uses AES-256 with a different 256-bit key for each object (note, journal entry, or datum).  In the future, this may change to a public key-based scheme in order to allow easier access to the entire object set (for example, `search` only currently searches over unencrypted objects).  To create a protected object, use the -e flag:

    notes new -e mynote
    notes journal -e

Currently, the AES IVs are generated using python's randint, which are NOT cryptographically strong.  The AES implementation is from PyCrypto (http://www.dlitz.net/software/pycrypto/).

## Full Usage

(For my setup, where I'm using TextMate and less.)

    $ notes help

     Editor is mate (secure: vim), pager is less.

     Usage: /usr/bin/notes [COMMAND]

     Valid commands:
       new <title> [-e]     Create a new note named <title> and open it in $EDITOR.
       cat <title>          Display the content of <title> in $PAGER.
       search <query>       Full text search for <query> in your notes tree.
       list [-all]          List all titles in your notes tree. Optional flag -all prints full paths.
       edit <title>         Open the note named <title> in $EDITOR.

       track                Log data for tracking.

       journal  [-e]        Create a new journal entry.
       journal read         Open the journal file.

       stack                View the current micronote stack.
       push <unote>         Push a micronote onto the active stack.
       pop <idx>            Unset the micronote at position idx.

       git-init             (Re-)Initialize version control in your notes tree.
       git-commit           Commit the current state of your notes tree to version control.
       git-log              View your version control commit log in $PAGER.
       git-status           See the status of your notes tree with respect to unversioned changes.

       help                 Display this help message and quit.

    Optional arguments:
       -e                   Encrypt using AES-256 with a 256 bit key.  Valid for: new, journal.
       -all                 Print full paths.  Valid for: list.

     Notes is maintained by Max Hodak <maxhodak@gmail.com>.  Please report issues at http://github.com/maxhodak/notes/issues/.

## Other

Keeps your notes in `$NOTESPATH/%Y/%m/%d/<name>.mdown`; if not set, `$NOTESPATH` defaults to either `/Users/&lt;username&gt;/Documents/Notes/` or `/home/&lt;username&gt;/notes`, depending on platform.  Notes also creates a symlink aliasing `note` to `notes`, so you can use either; some of the commands just feel more natural after 'note', singular.